[Music]
welcome to slash forward the channel
will we provide summarization and
commentary on all your favorite popular
and obscure horror movies in this video
we're gonna take a closer look at John
Carpenter's The Thing I got the idea for
this video when I was putting together
the summary video for this film the
trivia section of IMDB was filled with
detailed fan theories about which
expedition member became a thing at
which point and specifically focused on
the implications of the ending scene I
thought to myself surely a simple
careful viewing of the movie with some
detailed notes could resolve all these
questions I discovered that I was
entirely wrong about this in the process
I've become convinced that part of the
reason these details are so interesting
to discuss is because there is no clear
resolution to this problem which is why
despite the joy you may derive from
developing fan theories about this movie
they're almost certainly wrong this
video lays out my argument to support
this I plan to make more videos in this
series as I happen to come across movies
that seem to have an active fan theory
community feel free to discuss your
thoughts in this movie or make any
suggestions of movies you'd like to see
discussed in future videos in the
comments below now onto the topic the
first thing to understand is that it is
a mistake to view this movie in the
context of it being a typical mystery
because it's not a mystery is created by
giving the audience something intriguing
to ponder and then providing a limited
amount of information either directly or
indirectly that may imply the outcome as
the plot unfolds this information could
give insight into the specifics and
prior events that we didn't see the
possible motivations of the characters
or insight into alternative perspectives
which can cast doubts about things we
thought we knew it doesn't work as well
when you simply withhold information or
very directly and intentionally point
the audience in a direction that leads
them nowhere which is the case with this
movie and why it doesn't work as a
proper mystery this is demonstrated by
the initial infection that occurs after
the stray dog is brought into the
facility at first we don't know the dog
is a thing but we know that something is
unusual about the dog this is mainly
shown through tracking shots that
consistently bring our intention back to
the dog we eventually get confirmation
of our suspicions when it's put in the
pen with the other animals this leads us
to think back to when we saw it enter
one of the bedrooms to get the attention
of an expedition member we only see the
crew member in silhouette and are led to
believe that this individual is
overtaken by the alien in this scene
John Carpenter didn't use any of the
actual actors from the movie to cast the
shadow we see so even if we think the
shadow resembles one of the expedition
members it's not any of the expedition
members in reality it doesn't mislead us
into thinking the wrong crew member has
been infected
it implies that someone has been
infected in the way that gives us no
possibility of figuring out who this
doesn't actually at mystery it provides
no information aside from that offering
useful information it actually becomes
irrelevant because the outcomes of
almost all of the characters is known
and ultimately inconsequential here's a
rundown of the fate of each character
benning's dies as a thing
Norris dies as a thing Kapur dies as a
human Fuchs is an unknown but we do know
he's dead because we find his body given
that no other thing allows itself to be
burned completely without transforming
in some way it's probably safe to assume
that he dies as a human Clarke dies
human Palmer dies as a thing Windows
dies human in the process of being
assimilated Garry dies human nulls and
unknown but we can assume he dies human
because he doesn't have enough time to
be assimilated and the entire area where
he was gets blown up Blair dies as a
thing since we end the movie with only
two expedition members it doesn't really
matter what happens to the rest so long
as we eventually end up at the final
scene having almost no information
beyond this is why this movie doesn't
function well as a mystery and it's one
reason why sorting out the order in
which each of the characters to come to
the aliens is an impossible task
the other main factor that confounds our
efforts to sort things out relates to
the biology of the aliens rather than
making the things an individual organism
that consumes you and creates a perfect
replacement copy over a set period of
time as we see happen earlier on
carpenter chooses to introduce a
cellular aspect this makes it appear as
though the process works more like a
viral infection which makes it
impossible to know the point of first
infection for any character with any
degree of certainty it's not just about
who is alone with whom and for what
period of time like a game of mafia
because swapping of bodily fluids and
germ transference becomes a factor
there's just no way to follow that
especially when you have characters
handling other characters dirty
underwear
who knows what's on that this leads us
to other inconsistencies and
complications introduced by the way the
aliens are handled in the movie there's
a tendency to address the question of
infection order by observing the
behaviors of the expedition members but
this isn't necessarily helped either in
terms of the aliens themselves we don't
get to know much about that because of
this we can't spend too much time
attempting to explain or ascertain their
motives and desires they appear to be an
organism that exists on a micro level
individual cells that parasitize and
then emulate other organic material
however they are able to synchronize in
a way that allows them to interact and
proliferate on a macro level they work
together to create mimic larger
organisms and appear to be capable of
utilizing knowledge and prior
experiences of the host this allows them
to appear relatively normal
human terms moving too far beyond this
in the discussions that their
motivations or strategies will almost
immediately stretch the conversation
into pure speculation we're never given
insight into their level of
consciousness we also have no direct
understanding of how this organism fits
into the broader scheme that unfolds
within the movie for instance we see a
ship and then a space where a body was
extracted but there's no other available
information for apps this organism is
not the primary alien they actually flew
the ship but just happened to be on it
and be the organism that they found what
if it was designed as a means to help
the primary aliens with maintenance and
other routine functions Blair was
building a ship but there's nothing
about the biology of this organism that
would require it to maintain a human
form in order to perform normal tasks so
why did it furthermore we don't know why
it was building there's likely no
portion of a standard helicopter that
would be suitable for space travel we
may presume it just wanted to escape but
how does it know there's somewhere to
escape to you're probably screaming at
your screen right now but the point is
that these questions could go back and
forth forever I'm just trying to
demonstrate how quickly they move into
pure speculation another behavioral
problem is introduced by the ending the
ending is the other hotly discussed
topic because we all want to know what
happened to the Creedy and child's and
if they made it out alive
at least half of this question actually
is also a known outcome carpenter prior
to any portion of the expanded universe
existing explained to the intended to
reveal the final outcome of the movie
and how he staged the last shot the
sequence is harshly backlit as a result
every time the Creedy talks he's pumping
out steam to the point that his face is
almost totally obscured on the other
hand child shows no signs of breathing
this is supposed to indicate the child's
is a thing so we don't know their
ultimate fate but we know what they are
however this information makes earlier
parts of the movie more confusing
especially in terms of the alien
behavior if the aliens exist as
individual cells that amalgamate to
create a replica a larger organism then
it seems unlikely that it would have to
engage in any of our higher level
biological functions it perfectly mimics
us by creating blood and lungs and other
organs but it doesn't actually have a
need to breathe none of these organs are
part of its own biology and it doesn't
require any of them to function it
follows that have childs doesn't need to
breathe he also doesn't need to pump
blood this means that a mimicked heart
is irrelevant to a thing functioning if
this is the case why does Norris have a
heart attack there's no physical reason
this must happen even if you presume
that it was an unintended consequence of
mimicking a man on the verge of a
coronary because a thing doesn't need to
pump blood this means the reason it
fakes a heart attack if we assume there
was a reason is behavioural which makes
the question insoluble because we never
find out anything about how the aliens
make choices this was likely put in the
film because it was awesome doesn't
advance the plot and in cop
locates our ability to understand why
certain things happen despite being
completely worthwhile but we're left
with no understanding of why it happened
and given information at the end of the
movie that indicates it was possibly
completely unnecessary in terms of the
plot
I mentioned that John Carpenter
commented on the ending prior to any
extended universe material existing
which is an important place to draw the
line when venturing outside the universe
created within the movie itself this is
a comment made shortly after the movie's
release that directly references the
movie without changing anything about it
what he says is easily observable by
anyone watching the movie some theorists
assert ideas based on additional
information provided from supplemental
materials developed long after the
original movie but this information
tends to exacerbate our inability to
find answers to our questions
for example the 2011 prequel introduces
the idea that the aliens are not able to
replicate in organic matter so they can
be identified by a lack of jewelry
fillings surgical hardware and so forth
and the original child's can be seen
wearing an earring in the final scene
indicating he's human based on this rule
in addition Carpenter later said that he
considered the comics to be canon my
understanding is that the comics start
with McCready being saved and child's
freezing to death which indicates the
child was human supporting the earing
theory both of these later developments
contradict the lack of breathing and
final scene and introduce rules that
can't be confirmed in any other part of
the movie if we assume that this
information applies to the original in
this detail presents the contradiction
to carpenter's original intent which
would then require additional retconning
to explain and so on it also creates
continuity errors within the original
movie this is why when trying to assess
the events from the first movie you have
to discard everything from the extended
universe as well as on the outside lore
like the original story it was based on
and the original adaptation of that
story but there's good reason to do this
this movie was conceived as a standalone
story it was enough of a commercial and
critical dud that John Carpenter
believes that partially stalled his
career even after the popularity of
Halloween as a result the movie did not
in any way support the creation of
additional supplemental material until
it got popular much later on
so later comic books and video games and
other media would be add-ons that way
down the plot at the original they may
be entertaining and interesting in their
own right but they're not necessarily
supported we can't view the events of
the original in the context of this new
information ultimately this movie does
not provide us a mystery to unravel what
it presents us with is a straight horror
film with elements of misdirection to
add
and create a heightened sense of tension
and atmosphere we're made to feel the
confusion and paranoia of the expedition
members any details we don't get are of
no consequence because the final results
are essentially all known and any
mystery arising out of the finale
appears to be mostly by mistake it is
intriguing to consider the possibilities
regarding the questions of when and how
in a way specifically because there's an
absence of information filling in these
gaps we want to try to explain some of
the most memorable portions of the movie
because we love them but they don't
necessarily fit however withholding
information in creating misdirection
were intentional choices it doesn't in
any way detract from the strength of the
movie if you view it for what it is but
because of all this as much as you made
cherish your favorite fan theory it's
almost certainly wrong or at least
unprovable even though I may have just
destroyed your hopes and dreams I hope
you enjoyed the video thank you for
watching
[Music]